Did you see it?
Did you see what happened to my mom?
Wait, so this is the kid
who killed the Minotaur.
I know you feel powerless,
but you're not.
All will reveal itself in time.
I'm Annabeth.
Annabeth sees
the world differently.
Always six steps ahead of everyone else.
Chiron's been promising her for years
a demigod would arrive
who was fated to go on a quest
that even Chiron couldn't prevent.
You have been claimed
by Poseidon.
Your father needs your help.
An ultimatum has been given to him by Zeus
that if he doesn't return the master bolt,
there will be war.
Your mother was stolen...
by Hades.
If you can find her there,
I think you can bring her back.
When do we leave?
Hi. I’m Percy. It's nice to meet you.
I was told a quest isn’t a quest
until you’ve said so?
Which is weird considering
you're a Halloween decoration.
Oh, geez.
You seem busy. I’ll come back.
Whoa.
Come on, really?
You shall go west
and face the god who has turned.
And you shall find what was stolen
and see it safely returned.
The Oracle has confirmed
what we expected,
that this quest will proceed
toward the Underworld,
where you will confront the god
who has rebelled against his brothers.
Hades.
The entrance to Hades's domain
lies under the city of Los Angeles.
This is where you will journey to.
Time is short.
I have selected
our most compelling candidates,
from which you will choose two
to join you on this quest
and ensure
- that we succeed.
- Annabeth.
Customarily, one waits to at least hear
a name or two before choosing.
Are you sure you don't wanna hear more?
This thing, Zeus’s master bolt,
we need to get it back, right?
- Yes.
- And it’s gonna be hard to get, yes?
Extraordinarily.
And if the mission required someone
to push me down
a flight of stairs for it to succeed...
you'd want someone
who won’t hesitate when they do it.
The first quest-mate
shall be Annabeth Chase!
Now, on to the other candidates.
Dude, what have you been eating?
Whoa! Wait, hey.
I’m not trying to antagonize you.
I’m just genuinely curious.
Hey.
Sorry I missed
your selection ceremony.
I’ve been, you know...
shoveling his poop.
Yeah, I'm sorry about that.
I guess Mr. D wasn’t too happy
you told me about my mom?
No.
No, he was not.
So, who’d you choose to go with you?
You.
Funny. No, seriously, who'd you choose?
I chose you.
Why?
You shall be betrayed
by the one who calls you friend,
and fail to save
what matters most in the end.
I trust you.
And... And, right now,
nothing's more important than that.
I'm gonna pack the best snacks.
How much money did they give you?
Um, 200 dollars in cash,
and a bag of these.
I think they’re Canadian, maybe?
Or from Chuck E. Cheese, I don’t know.
They’re golden drachmas.
Dollars for human world,
drachmas for mythic world.
Don't mix 'em up.
I brought you this.
Well, these are...
interesting.
Maia.
Those are interesting.
A gift. [clicks tongue] From my dad.
Maia.
I thought about choosing you
before I chose Grover.
Hey, Grover’s a lot stronger
than people think.
I was afraid.
I have a chance to rescue my mom
from Hades.
I can’t let anything stop me.
And I’m afraid...
if it gets in the way of the quest,
Annabeth might try to.
And you told me you'll always be
on her side no matter what,
- and--
- It’s okay.
Really, I... I get it.
Just take care of each other out there.
She’s really gonna miss that tree, huh?
When Annabeth first arrived here
with Thalia and Luke,
they were being chased by monsters.
Agents of Hades. Sisters.
Furies.
- Mrs. Dodds?
- Yes!
One was our algebra teacher. Alecto.
Thalia turned back to fight
to buy her friends some time.
Her satyr Protector tried to stop her,
but she wouldn’t listen.
So, at the last moment...
Zeus intervened
to save her life and...
changed her form.
The most powerful being
in the universe’s best idea
to save his daughter’s life...
was to turn her into a tree?
She was the bravest demigod I ever knew.
She fought valiantly,
and she met a hero’s fate.
She met a pinecone’s fate.
Forbidden children are always in danger,
even the strongest ones, even Thalia.
And you are not Thalia.
Do exactly as I say,
and maybe you survive this.
Are we clear?
Does she think she’s in charge?
Who’d you think would be in charge?
I guess I assumed we’d do
a show of hands or something.
Hero’s quests
are world-defining events.
They have made and broken empires...
altered the course
of human civilization...
changed the balance of power on Olympus.
A quest is a sacred thing.
And to be charged with one
is to be in conversation
with the gods themselves.
There is no way
this is what sacred smells like.
We’re soldiers on a mission.
It’s not a vacation.
Thank you for clearing that up.
But if this is so important, why didn’t
Chiron spring for plane tickets?
This seems kind of low priority,
doesn’t it?
Sorry, I assumed someone had told you.
Tell me what?
Percy, it isn’t just the monsters
who are gonna be trying to stop us.
You’re a forbidden child.
Zeus might decide
to take a shot at you himself.
The sky is his domain.
We’d be serving you up on a silver platter
to try to travel through it.
Yeah, no one mentioned that.
Okay,
I'm gonna go get us some snacks.
- I’ll come with you.
- No, you’ll stay right there.
Why? It smells terrible back here.
Monsters can’t smell you through that,
so that’s where I want you.
I wanna vote.
Who thinks that we should all go get
to breathe fresh air
- and buy our own snacks?
- There’s no voting.
Chips and sodas okay for you guys?
I don’t think you should just get
to decide we don’t vote.
- I’m sorry to hear that.
- Okay.
I wanna vote on whether you get
to decide we don’t vote.
Grover, please, can you help your...
- ...friend?
- I really don't wanna be a tiebreaker.
I have a better idea.
♪ Oh, golly, the road’s gettin’ bumpy
'cause I got me some friends ♪
♪ Who just can’t get along ♪
♪ Oh, dear! When the team’s
gettin’ grumpy ♪
♪ The trick to gettin’ through it
is singin’ this song-- ♪
Dude, what are you doing?
It’s the consensus song.
Verse two encourages us
to say nice things about each other.
You get a few rounds in
and you’d be amazed
at how disagreements just kind of...
fade away.
Chips and sodas okay for you guys?
- Whatever.
- Yes, please.
Okay.
Our voting system's broken.
Monsters can’t be
avoided entirely.
They’re more common than you think.
The trick is to spot them first
before they spot you.
It’s true they are more likely
to sense a more powerful demigod.
A child of the Big Three,
Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades,
is at the most extreme risk.
But it isn’t your power,
exactly, that draws them.
It’s more complicated than that.
They smell fear.
That’s bees.
What a monster senses
kinda depends on the monster.
Some are better
at sensing your inadequacy.
Some, your need for glory, your shame.
It’s important to remember that
if you’ve ever gotta confront one...
wherever your armor is weakest,
that monster's probably coming
right for it.
Nothing will stop them, not even death.
If you guys were better
at your job,
I might not have noticed
you here so easily.
If Thalia were better at hers,
there might not be a family of squirrels
making her their home.
Is that why
Hades sent you here?
To gloat over a job
you almost did right once?
How things have changed.
You're not the frightened little girl
I came for all those years ago.
Don’t kid yourself.
I wasn’t that frightened.
Maybe so. Maybe so.
Either way, now it would seem
that you're exactly what they say you are.
The pride of Athena’s offspring.
Perhaps the most
formidable demigod child alive.
Why are you here?
I'm here to collect your friend.
Collect him? For what?
Oh, I don’t question orders.
"Bring him in, quick and quiet."
That is what I was told.
Lure him off this bus where I can take him
quietly away from so many eyes,
and your quest goes on
unimpeded and unburdened.
We both know he isn’t gonna be
of any help to you,
and maybe even a hindrance.
Some children must learn the hard way.
Look, I’m not against
the idea of consensus,
I’m just not sure the song is doing
what you think it is, is all.
Guys, you need to open that window! Now!
I don't think these windows
are supposed to--
Oh, no.
Go, go, go, go, go!
Everyone, leave your belongings
and exit the front of the bus.
Excuse me. Lady.
Annabeth, let's go!
Hey!
We're done here. Let's go.
Somewhere up ahead,
this turns into a satyr path.
What’s a satyr path?
It's a road through
the wilderness.
Satyr explorers use them.
Harder to track us.
That’s great,
but if we stay in the wilderness,
how are we gonna find a phone?
What do we need a phone for?
So we can call camp.
T-- To get help.
We don’t need help. We’re fine.
We’re fine?
We haven’t even gotten to Trenton,
and we're wandering through a forest.
I didn’t even know they had forests
in New Jersey, but we've found one.
I would say we're the opposite of fine.
We were sent on
a quest by the Oracle,
by the gods.
What'd you think, it would be easy?
It’s supposed to be hard.
That’s why only certain people are chosen.
If we call camp, we’re basically saying
it was a mistake to choose us.
I’m completely comfortable with that.
Everyone makes mistakes.
Why are you so afraid of who you are?
What?
You know, what’s interesting
about this particular satyr path
is it’s actually the one
my Uncle Ferdinand took
when he set out on his own quest.
What was that supposed to mean,
afraid of who I am? I’m not afraid.
Yes, you are.
You aren't just a kid.
"Just a kid" doesn’t do
what you did to Clarisse back at camp.
"Just a kid" doesn’t have Hades
sending top lieutenants to retrieve them.
You know, you are a part of something
so much bigger
than we can understand right now.
We have to move forward,
whether you like it or not,
whether you want to or not.
You don’t want to call camp, fine.
Then, at least let’s call your mom.
Excuse me?
Athena? Your mother.
I’d call my father,
but we aren’t exactly on speaking terms.
You know, because of
the lifelong neglect and all,
but you and your mother seem close.
So, why don't we ask her for help?
Grover, will you explain to your friend
that he needs to pull himself together?
You can’t ask her, can you?
- When was the last time she talked to you?
- Grover.
I don’t know why
you keep pulling him into this.
- He’s on my side.
- What makes you think that?
He’s my Protector, it’s his job.
- He was my Protector first.
- First?
What do you mean "first?"
Very exciting, getting to walk
in Uncle Ferdinand’s footsteps.
Next best thing to getting
to talk to him again.
Thalia, Luke, and Annabeth
had a satyr Protector.
That was you.
Why didn't you tell me?
Do you guys smell that?
- Grover, I’m not kidding--
- No, neither am I. Just shush.
Hamburgers.
Grover.
- What are you doing--
- Somebody's making hamburgers
in the middle of nowhere, on a satyr path.
Whoever it is...
they’re from our world.
Oh, come on.
What?
Aunty "Em" has a garden
full of petrified stone folks.
Yeah, this is someone
from our world, all right.
Anyone wanna guess what "Em" is short for?
Oh.
Let’s get out of here,
please, while we still can.
You should have accepted my offer
when you had the chance.
Offer? What offer is she talking about?
Not today, friends.
Not on my doorstep.
Oh, shoot.
If you have something to resolve,
why not come inside and I’ll help?
Alecto? Will you be joining us?
No, well I wouldn’t think you would.
She won’t bother you
as long as you’re with me.
But it isn’t as though
she’ll leave either,
not if it means reporting that she failed
to retrieve the son of Poseidon.
How did you--
A forbidden child
has been claimed.
How long did you think
that secret would keep?
It’s a pleasure to meet you,
son of Poseidon.
I’m Medusa.
Percy, don’t.
She’s a monster.
We all choose
who we make our monsters,
but, right now, that one wants
to tear you limb from limb...
and I’m offering you lunch.
The choice is yours.
I think we can trust her.
- What?
- Dude!
I can’t explain it, I just...
My mom used to tell me her story.
And the point was always
that she isn’t what people think.
And I definitely trust my mom.
So I’m going in.
You guys do what you want.
What are you...
You must be hungry.
I left snacks on the table
while I get something proper going.
You think it’s safe to eat?
Percy, I’m not gonna lie to you,
I’m really hungry,
and I’m ready to take that chance.
Thanks for coming.
This isn’t the same for me
as it is for you.
Why?
You're concerned I would hold
a grudge against you
simply because you are
a daughter of Athena?
You shouldn’t be.
We're not our parents after all.
And you and I might have more
in common than you think.
Please, sit and eat.
So you’re not a monster,
what are you then?
A survivor.
You must be a little more than that.
There's a Fury out there
that seems terrified of you.
Because she knows what I think of her.
I don’t like bullies.
When one shows up on my doorstep,
they end up spending a lot more time there
than they planned for.
The gift the gods gave me
is that I cannot be bullied anymore.
What my mother did
to you wasn’t a gift,
it was a curse.
You are loyal to your mother.
Yes.
- You stand by her?
- Always.
- You love her?
- Of course, I do.
And so did I.
So did I.
Do you know the story
of how I came to be this way?
I do.
Do you?
Do I?
Athena was everything to me.
I worshipped her, I prayed to her.
I made offerings...
She never answered.
Not even an omen
to suggest she appreciated my love.
I wasn’t like you, sweetheart.
I was you.
I would have worshipped her
that way for a lifetime...
in silence.
But then one day, another god came,
and he broke that silence.
Your father.
The Sea God told me that he loved me.
I felt as though he saw me in a way
I had never felt seen before.
But then Athena declared
that I had embarrassed her
and I needed to be punished.
Not him.
Me.
She decided
that I would never be seen again
by anyone who would live to tell the tale.
That isn’t what happened.
My mother is just, always.
The gods want you to believe that,
that they are infallible.
But they only want what all bullies want.
They want us to blame ourselves
for their own shortcomings.
That is not what happened.
And you are a liar.
Something’s burning.
Would you give me a hand in the kitchen?
I think lunch is ready.
Grover...
get ready to run.
She's not usually like that.
I mean, a little bit, she is,
but that was a lot.
She’s going to betray you.
Sooner or later, people like her,
they always do.
I don’t think she’s like that.
Then you will be an easy mark
for her when the time comes.
What do you care?
Your mother and I,
we're like sisters in a way.
Targeted by the same monster.
So I find myself
feeling protective of you.
A monster?
My mom never talked about my dad that way.
Where is she now,
your mother?
Is she safe?
No.
She’s not.
And do you trust your friends
to help you to make her safe?
Will they let you make her safe
if it conflicts with their quest?
I could...
help you remove them from the equation,
so that you can be free of them.
If you ask me to.
Come on.
There’s three of us
and only one of her.
If we split up,
she can’t be watching us all at once.
- I don’t think it’d be that simple.
- It could be.
Here’s the plan. I’ll get in the air,
I’ll draw her attention.
As soon as you hear me say, "Maia,"
you guys start--
Oh, boy! Okay! Um...
Off. Down.
So, we’re gonna need a new plan.
We are not our parents,
until we choose to be.
You two have chosen.
A daughter
of a self-righteous mother,
who chose self-righteousness for herself.
And you,
you could have shown your father
what it means to stand up
for someone you love.
You could choose
to save your mother
instead of doing your father’s bidding.
If neither of you will help
teach these lessons,
perhaps you should be the lessons.
When I ship your statues to Olympus...
...maybe that will get
my point across even better.
Stand up.
Let’s have a look at you.
I didn’t really think this through!
Now!
- Did you hear that?
- Hey, are you okay?
Did you say something?
- Aw, man.
- You found it?
Hope so.
Want me to take it from here?
No, no, I got it.
Just make sure it’s pointing
in the right direction
before you take my hat off.
- Good tip.
- Okay.
- My hands are kinda full...
- Of course.
What is it?
Uncle Ferdinand.
Oh, no.
Grover, I’m so sorry.
This is as far as he got on his quest.
We aren’t even to Trenton.
But look at him.
He’s not like the others, he...
He doesn’t look afraid.
You used the, um,
you used the head to get rid of Alecto?
Yeah.
Good.
That was the right move.
Uh, we probably should get going.
It’ll be dark soon.
But what are we gonna do with the head?
I just took down a Fury with it,
and I wasn’t even trying.
We can’t just leave it
for someone to find.
Leave the hat on
and bury it in the basement,
that oughta keep it safe.
Sure.
Now, can we talk
about the bigger issue here?
What bigger issue?
"You could have saved your mother."
That’s what she said to you,
like you discussed it already.
- Is your mother still alive?
- She’s with Hades.
- But I appreciate your concern.
- Guys, just please stop.
Oh, I'm concerned.
What are you actually doing on this quest?
And why did I have to hear
about this from Medusa?
Okay, while we’re at it,
"You should have accepted my offer?"
What’s that about do you think?
And why did we have to hear it
from Alecto?
Enough!
The hat was a gift from her mother.
It’s the only thing she’s ever possessed
that connects them.
That oughta matter to you.
Okay, but how are we gonna make sure
this thing is safe?
I’m not up to that yet.
And you, really? His mom’s alive.
Can you imagine how confusing
that must be for him?
Feeling like he may have to choose
between the fate of the world
and the fate of the only person
who's ever cared about him?
Why are you talking like this?
Because all day I’ve been trying
to keep this quest on track
without upsetting either of you.
But maybe things need to get a little
upsetting before they move forward.
She asked you a question
back in the woods,
and you never really answered.
What are you so afraid of?
- What are you talking about?
- You heard me.
- I don’t know.
- I think you do.
You’ve been fighting with her,
you’ve been fighting with me.
Because the Oracle said
one of you would betray me. Okay?
"You shall be betrayed by one
who calls you a friend,
"and you shall fail to save
what matters most in the end."
That’s the rest of what she said to me.
I chose her because
I couldn’t imagine we’d ever be friends.
And I chose you because I thought
if I can count on anyone to be on my side,
no matter what, it was you.
And now, I'm feeling so alone.
I don’t know
what to think or who to trust.
I didn’t mean it that way.
Alecto offered to help our quest
if I gave you up to her.
What did you say?
I killed her sister.
Medusa offered to help me save my mom
if I turned on the two of you.
And what'd you say?
I cut off her head.
You didn’t choose to be demigods.
We didn’t choose this quest.
But we can decide that
as long as the three of us are together,
none of us are gonna be alone.
And if we can’t do that, we might as well
just head back to camp right now.
'Cause we won’t make it.
I think I’ve got a better idea
what to do with this.
Hermes Express,
she ships these things all over.
Some of it goes to Olympus.
Percy, you can’t ship
Medusa’s head to Olympus.
Why not?
- Because the gods won’t like it.
- At all.
-"At all" at all.
- Why?
That’s what you do with dangerous stuff.
Like batteries, you just
send 'em back where they came from.
Okay. Look, this is a bad idea.
- They will see this as impertinent.
- I am impertinent.
Yes, but we’re not.
Really, very not.
Look.
Medusa tried to derail our quest.
She’s got serious beef with your mom.
When you look at it that way,
this seems kinda like
tribute or something, doesn’t it?
And besides...
...this way,
a part of your mom’s still with us.
Thank you.
So this isn’t exactly what I meant.
By choosing each other.
There are actual dangers involved here
that cannot be...
You're gonna sing the song,
aren't you?
Okay.
♪ Oh, golly ♪
- ♪ The road’s gettin’ bumpy ♪
- Whatever.
♪ Consensus ♪
♪ New York City ♪
Mount Olympus Causeway
You guys are not gonna believe this.
♪ Arthur, he does as he pleases ♪
♪ All of his life, his master's toys ♪
♪ Deep in his heart, he's just ♪
♪ He's just a boy ♪
♪ Living his life one day at a time ♪
♪ And showing himself a pretty good time ♪
♪ Laughing about the way
they want him to be ♪
♪ When you get caught
between the moon and New York City ♪
♪ I know it's crazy ♪
♪ But it's true ♪
♪ If you get caught
between the moon and New York City ♪
- ♪ The best that you can do ♪
♪ The best that you can do ♪
♪ Is fall in love ♪
♪ When you get caught
between the moon and New York City ♪
♪ I know it's crazy ♪
♪ But it's true ♪
♪ If you get caught
between the moon and New York City ♪
- ♪ The best that you can do ♪
♪ The best that you can do ♪
♪ Is fall in love ♪
♪ When you get caught
between the moon and New York City ♪
You should run now.
Was that the Chimera?
Poseidon's never helped me before.
He wasn't gonna start now.